Add "CRUD operations" and "Understanding FerretDB" sections (#1232)
FerretDB/FerretDB: website/docs/Basic_operations/update.md

---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Update operation

The update operation modifies a document record in a collection, based on a given query parameter and update.
The `$set` operator assigns the updated record to the document.

## Modify a single document

Use the `updateOne()` method to update a single document in a collection.
This operation filters a collection using a query parameter, and updates given fields within that document.

```sh

> db.collection.updateOne({<query-params>}, {$set: {<update fields>}})

Reviewer: Should we mention update operators here? We use them in the example but don't describe what operators are supported or how to use them. As that's basics we can do it briefly somehow.

Author: I've highlighted a few operators above  based on info [here](https://github.com/FerretDB/FerretDB/issues/229). Please let me know if there's any other I must have missed.

```

First, populate the database with a collection containing a list of documents.

```sh
db.scientists.insertMany([{firstname: "Thomas", lastname: "Edison", born: 1847, invention: "LightBulb", nobel:true},{firstname: "Graham", lastname: "Bell", born: 1847, invention: "telephone", nobel:false},{firstname: "Nikola", lastname: "Tesla", born: 1856, invention: "Tesla coil", nobel:false}, {firstname: "Ada", lastname: "Lovelace", born: 1815, invention: "Computer programming", nobel:false}])
```

> Using the document record in the collection, update the document where name is `firstname` is "Graham", and set the `firstname` as "Alexander Graham".

Reviewer 2: I don't get this sentence :) "where name is `firstname` is..." I think there is a typo somewhere.

The `updateOne()` operation will only affect the first document that’s retrieved in the collection.

```sh
db.scientists.updateOne({name:"Graham"}, {$set: {name:"Alexander Graham"}})
```

## Modify many documents

Using the `updateMany()` command, you can modify many documents at once.
In the example below, where `nobel` is set as false, update and set to true.

```sh
db.scientists.updateMany({nobel:false}, {$set: {nobel:true}})
```

This operation updates all the documents where the field `nobel` was previously false.

## Replace a document

> Besides updating a documenting, you can also replace it completely using the `replaceOne()` method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Besides updating a document, you can replace it completely using the `replaceOne()` method.
```

```sh

> db.league.replaceOne({lastname: "Bell"}, {firstname: "Albert", lastname: "Einstein", born: 1879, invention: "Quantum Theory", nobel:true})

Reviewer 2: I understand that our examples are totally artificial, but I wonder if for those who have `nobel: true` we should set `invention` as something they got Nobel for :D  On the other hand, in this example, we replace Bell with Einstein... So I think, the invention is not that important (so feel free to reject my suggestion) :D :D :D 

```suggestion
db.league.replaceOne({lastname: "Bell"}, {firstname: "Albert", lastname: "Einstein", born: 1879, invention: "Photoelectric effect", nobel:true})
```

Author: This is a great suggestion! I was going for something close to real, so this helps too.
